---
layout: post
title: The Scientific Method
categories:
- General
feature_image: "https://0.gravatar.com/userimage/244506044/7491748ddcfec0168d99b19ad7d506ea?size=256"
---

I would like to start my first ever blog with trying to define science and how to conduct it. One powerful method for defining phaenomena is through how we perceive the surrounding world, namely, through experiencing with our sences. One powerful sense is visualization and it can be conducted physically through sight or virtually through imagination. Personally when I was younger at school I remember being asked: "How do you imagine the word _science_?", to which I usually recalled the famous painting by the Reinassance master Rafael, [The School of Athens](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_School_of_Athens#/media/File:%22The_School_of_Athens%22_by_Raffaello_Sanzio_da_Urbino.jpg). This painting, located at the Vatican Musseum, depicts philosophers, mathematicians and scientists from the Ancient world seemingly involved in discussing or indulging in some intellectual activities. I believe this painting clearly represents what the outside world thinks of us scientists. To my toddler mind it usually elicited the idea of a congregation of intelligent individuals performing difficult tasks (either physical or intellectual) to achieve some higher or absolute knowledge. These group must be using some methods to figure out the hidden secrets of our world. This method I was trying to allude in this first intrioduction is widely known as the scientific method and is the basis of modern day discoveries.  
Wikipedia defines the scientific method as: ["... an empirical method for acquiring knowledge that has characterized the development of science since at least the 17th century"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scientific_method). By analyzing the meaning of sentence we get two main informations, namely, that the scientific method is an _empirical_ method and that it fully developed to its modern day form around the _17th century_. Empirical means "through experience" and corresponds to _e.g._ my intial example of sensing through visualization. The starting date of the scientific method is a bit debated and the article is clearly refering to the start of the scientific revolution in Europe. This does not mean that previous generations did not indulge in scientific discoveries. Ancient Greece is widely credited for setting the invention of science. Aristotle may be considered as the father of the pseudo-scientific method. He laid down the basis for the rational examination of natural phaenomena. He is also credited with distinguishing between _induction_, the interference of universal principles from particular observation and _deduction_, in which general principles are used to make predictions in specific situations. Though, most of Aristotle's deductive work turned out to be incorrect, his mode of thinking laid the basis for an important example to follow. Another important tradition was rhetoric, in which oratory was used for persuading through means of reason. 

